
Tomorrow I’m cleared to return to trail! I’ll bus down to Red’s Meadow where my next food resupply is waiting for me and begin the hike to Vermillion Valley Resort. My return plan is conservative - I’m looking at 4 days to do 33 miles, with a very leisurely 6 miles on day 1. 

VVR, my next stop, is an oasis for JMT hikers. After 4 days I’ll be rewarded with a shower, laundry, warm meals, and an opportunity to take a rest day, surrounded by other hikers. Hikers usually get to VVR by taking a ferry across Lake Edison from the trail junction at the east end of the lake, but this year the ferry isn’t running. As a result, and owing to my desire to be conservative on my return to the trail, I’ll be taking an alternate route to VVR down Goodale Pass, which is a popular trail for southbound hikers on the Pacific Crest Trail. I may take a rest day at VVR depending on how I feel, and after that I’ll have a two-day stretch to Muir Trail Ranch, where my second resupply is waiting, and where hopefully I’ll be able to begin the remote southern section of the trail. 

Throwing a wrench in all of this is the Rock Fire, currently at a size of about 11,000 acres near Independence, CA. The Rock Fire won’t pose a threat at all to the next section of the hike (in fact, rerouting through Goodale Pass will take me further away from it). But if it’s not fully contained in the middle of next week, it will likely end my attempt at the southern portion of the trail. From Muir Trail Ranch, my next section would be hiking directly toward the fire, since my next resupply is in Independence. Some portions of the National Forest - not on the JMT, but close - were closed earlier this afternoon. 

I’ll be safe on trail - I can text a service called TrailInfo a set of coordinates from my satellite communicator and it will tell me whether there’s a wildfire within 50 miles, which direction it’s in, and what the Air Quality Index is at that location. 

If the fire persists, I can exit the trail either at VVR or MTR and catch a shuttle to Fresno. From Fresno I can either fly home or, if I’m feeling it, head back to Yosemite and do the 23 miles of trail there that I hadn’t intended to do (beautiful miles, just a pain to do them with the permit I got). If my trip is cut short, that’s totally okay with me - this has already been a lifechanging trip and I don’t feel the need to risk my safety to squeeze any more out of it. I’ve seen enough of the Sierra to know I’ll be back. 
